This dataset is composed of summary mean values for feature measurements obtained from Samsung devices worn by volunteer subjects while performing specified activities.

Study Design: The mean and standard deviation values were selected from the raw data files of a study where 30 volunteer subjects wore the Samsung Galaxy SII on their waists while performing six specific activities.  

Raw Data: The feature measurements generated by the Samsung Galaxy SII device and divided into train and test sets, descriptive names for each feature measurement that is generated, volunteer subject identifiers for each set of feature measurements, activity identifiers for each set of feature measurements, and a list of activities performed by the volunteer subject.

Processed Data:  Mean and standard deviation feature measurements were extracted from the raw data.  The activity code in the raw data was matched to this name and the code was excluded from the resulting data set.  There are six activity name values: WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING AND LAYING.  There are 30 volunteer subject identifiers.  The mean of each of these feature measurements by the volunteer subject ID and the activity name that the volunteer was performing is presented in the data file.
    				
Design Decisions: Mean and standard deviation variables were selected from the raw data by matching the strings 'mean' and 'std' in the feature measurement name.  Abbreviations in feature measurement names were translated into words for inclusion in the dataset as the column headers.  Column headers are in lower case.  Category variables are in the first two columns followed by the numeric variables. All numeric mean values are presented as decimal rounded to 7 significant digits.  The dataset is sorted by activity label and subject ID. 	There is one row for each subject ID and activity name.			
    				
 				
Number of records: 180
Number of variables: 81
The category variables are:
	activitylabel - A character datatype.  The name of the activity performed by the subject.  All values are uppercase.
	subjectid - A numeric datatype.  The volunteer who performed the activity.  These numeric values range from 1 to 30.
The numeric variables are: 
    79 numeric variables (see below) - Numeric datatypes.  
The numeric variables - Numeric datatypes.  Each of the values listed below is a mean of a feature measurement extracted from the raw data.

Summary dataset variables

   activitylabel                           
   subjectid                               
   timebodyaccelerometermeanx               
   timebodyaccelerometermeany               
   timebodyaccelerometermeanz               
   timebodyaccelerometerstdx                
   timebodyaccelerometerstdy                
   timebodyaccelerometerstdz                
   timebodygravityaccmeanx                  
   timebodygravityaccmeany                  
   timebodygravityaccmeanz                  
   timebodygravityaccstdx                  
   timebodygravityaccstdy                   
   timebodygravityaccstdz                   
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkmeanx           
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkmeany           
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkmeanz           
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkstdx            
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkstdy            
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkstdz            
   timebodygyroscopemeanx                   
   timebodygyroscopemeany                   
   timebodygyroscopemeanz                   
   timebodygyroscopestdx                    
   timebodygyroscopestdy                    
   timebodygyroscopestdz                   
   timebodygyroscopejerkmeanx               
   timebodygyroscopejerkmeany               
   timebodygyroscopejerkmeanz              
   timebodygyroscopejerkstdx                
   timebodygyroscopejerkstdy
   timebodygyroscopejerkstdz                
   timebodyaccelerometermagmean             
   timebodyaccelerometermagstd               
   timebodygravityaccmagmean                
   timebodygravityaccmagstd                 
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkmagmean         
   timebodyaccelerometerjerkmagstd         
   timebodygyroscopemagmean                 
   timebodygyroscopemagstd                  
   timebodygyroscopejerkmagmean             
   timebodygyroscopejerkmagstd              
   frequencybodyaccelerometermeanx          
   frequencybodyaccelerometermeany          
   frequencybodyaccelerometermeanz          
   frequencybodyaccelerometerstdx           
   frequencybodyaccelerometerstdy           
   frequencybodyaccelerometerstdz           
   frequencybodyaccelerometermeanfreq-X     
   frequencybodyaccelerometermeanfreq-Y     
   frequencybodyaccelerometermeanfreq-Z     
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmeanx      
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmeany      
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmeanz      
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkstdx       
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkstdy       
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmeanfreq-X 
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmeanfreq-Y 
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmeanfreq-Z 
   frequencybodygyroscopemeanx              
   frequencybodygyroscopemeany              
   frequencybodygyroscopemeanz              
   frequencybodygyroscopestdx               
   frequencybodygyroscopestdy               
   frequencybodygyroscopestdz               
   frequencybodygyroscopemeanfreq-X         
   frequencybodygyroscopemeanfreq-Y         
   frequencybodygyroscopemeanfreq-Z         
   frequencybodyaccelerometermagmean        
   frequencybodyaccelerometermagstd         
   frequencybodyaccelerometermagmeanfreq    
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmagmean    
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmagstd     
   frequencybodyaccelerometerjerkmagmeanfreq
   frequencybodygyroscopemagmean            
   frequencybodygyroscopemagmeanfreq        
   frequencybodygyroscopejerkmagmean        
   frequencybodygyroscopejerkmagstd         
   frequencybodygyroscopejerkmagmeanfreq    